In this video, We're going
to introduce Power Query,
also known as Get and Transform.
Excel is an amazing
efficiency tool.
But there's still some operations
like importing and cleaning data,
which can be extremely
time-consuming.
Take this dataset, for
example, it's got gaps.
Now there are some
clever little tools
and tricks for
filling those gaps,
but if you have to do it
regularly with larger data sets,
it can be quite time-consuming.
Here's another example.
Here we've got our course code
and description in
a single column.
We want that core data to
stay exactly as it is.
But there are times
where we need to
work with those as
separate entities.
Power Query can solve
these problems and
a whole bunch more.
What is Power Query?
First of all, Power Query is only
available for Windows not Mac.
It was first introduced
as an add-in for
2010 and was also available
as an add in for 2013.
But from 2016 onwards,
it has been integrated into
the Data ribbon in the Get
and Transform section.
Power Query allows
us to pull data from
a huge variety of sources.
These can be databases,
Oracle, SQL Server, even SAP.
You can get it from
online services,
Facebook, just an amazing array.
Then having pulled
that data into memory,
Power Query allows you to perform
cleaning and transformation
operations to
get that data into exactly
the format you need.
But the best part is, as you go
through the process of
transforming the data,
it records each
operation as a step,
a little bit like a macro,
which means that
when the underlying
data changes or is replaced,
all you have to do is hit
the refresh button and
all those transformations
happen again.
A very powerful automation tool.
Let's see it in action.
The first example, really simple.
We're just going to
create a query
that splits our Course
Code and Description.
We're going to start by
clicking somewhere in the data.
Then we're going to come
to our Data ribbon.
We're going to come to our
Get and Transform Data group,
and when the data is
coming from the workbook
you're working in,
you just choose From
Table or Range.
We're going to click on that.
First thing Power
Query is going to
do is convert your
data to a Table.
Now this doesn't
give you much chance
to change the name of the Table.
It's probably better to do
it yourself beforehand,
but this will still work,
so we're going to click OK.
The date has been
converted to a Table
and welcome to the
Power Query Editor.
At first glance, it looks
quite similar to Excel.
We've got our data organized
in rows and columns,
and we've got our ribbon.
If you have a look at
the Ribbon though,
you'll see it's got some
really exciting tools.
What we want to do is
split this column.
Making sure you've
got it selected,
come to the Home
ribbon, and we're going
to look for the
Split Column tool.
When I click the dropdown,
it's got quite a few options
and some of these are awesome.
Digit to Non-digit,
Uppercase to Lowercase.
These are the kinds of
problems that solving with
traditional Excel
is really tricky.
But in Power Query, really easy.
The option we want is By
Delimiter or Separator,
so we're going to click on
that, and it's identified,
we probably want to use a space,
but there are lots
of other options
or even a Custom delimiter.
Here's the best part though.
Text to Columns would split
it by each space it found.
But here we can choose
to use Each occurrence,
Right-most, or the one
we actually want,
which is Left-most delimiter.
Make sure you've chosen
that, and click OK.
Too easy. Now let's
give our columns
slightly better names.
So I'm going to double-click
on the first one,
and I'm going to change
that to just Course Code.
Then on the second one
we're going to change
that to Course Description.
Now if you have a look
on the right-hand side,
each step we've been doing
is being recorded as a step.
Query also has a name,
is normally named after the
table you created it from.
So our's hasn't got
a really good name,
so we're just going
change that to
Course List, and now we're done.
We're going to Close and Load.
That's how we save our Query.
Coming across to the left,
I'm going to click
the dropdown and
choose "Close and Load To",
so you can see all the
options. By default.
It will load it to a new
table in a new worksheet.
But you could actually
load it directly to
a PivotTable or a
PivotChart if you're working
with one of the newer versions.
You can also choose to
just create a connection.
That means you have
the query data
available for you to work with,
but it doesn't load
it back into Excel,
or you could load it to
an existing worksheet.
We want to go with the default,
so we're just going to click OK
and there's our
clean transformed data
sitting in its own worksheet.
We'll give this a better name,
so I'm just going to
rename this Course List.
But now what happens when we
change the original data?
Let's go and see. I'm going
to come to Training Courses,
and you can see we forgot
to fill the category here,
so I'm just going
to copy Microsoft
down because it is
a Microsoft course.
When I come back
to my Course List,
it has not immediately updated.
One thing to be aware
of with queries,
they do need to be refreshed.
That's really easy to do,
right-click and "Refresh".
Whenever the Training
Course data changes,
if we refresh this,
it will automatically update.
That was just a quick
introductions to give you
an idea of some of the
things Power Query can do.
But over this week we're going to
see some amazing features.
Keep watching. [NOISE]